content/reference/firewall.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Cloud Firewall
section: Reference
---

The Cloud Firewall is a distributed firewall for managing network
access to, from and between Cloud Servers.

It's controlled using the [API](/reference/api/), commonly using the
[CLI](/reference/cli/).

It is stateful, so you only need to write a rule in one direction -
you do not need to worry about the reply packets coming back the other
way.

See the [Cloud Firewall guide](/guides/cli/firewall/) for a step by
step walkthrough of setting up the Cloud Firewall.

### Server Group

A Server Group is a logical grouping of Cloud Servers. Servers can be
a member of one or more Server Groups, and can be added to or removed
from them at any time.

Server Groups are a useful system in their own right, and will be the
building blocks of other Brightbox Cloud features.  See the
[Server Groups guide](/guides/cli/server-groups/) for more details.

### Firewall Policy

A Firewall Policy represents a list of Firewall Rules and is
associated with a Server Group.  Rules are reapplied whenever the
policy or group membership changes.

When first created, a Firewall Policy has no rules and has no
associated Server Group.

A Firewall Policy can only consist of Firewall Rules that accept
traffic, which means a Cloud Server can easily be controlled by
multiple Firewall Policies without worrying about the ordering of the
rules.  A Cloud Server can have multiple Firewall Policies by being in
multiple Server Groups. Any traffic that is not matched by an accept
rule in any of the applied policies is rejected.

### Firewall Rules

A Firewall Rule is a set of criteria for matching IP packets crossing
the firewall.  Packets can be matched based on source or destination
address, protocol and source and destination ports. For protocol icmp,
the icmp type can also be matched.

#### Direction

There is no explicit concept of incoming or outgoing rules - the
direction of the rule is implied by the address criteria.  So when
matching on destination address, the source is considered to be the
Server Group (so is an outgoing rule).  When matching on source
address, the destination is considered to be the Server Group (so is
an incoming rule).

#### Address criteria

Source or destination addresses can be a few different types:

<table>
<tr>
<th>Address criteria</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr><td><code>any</code></td><td>Any IPv4 or IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>0.0.0.0/0</code></td><td>Any IPv4 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>::0/0</code></td><td>Any IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>srv-xxxxx</code></td><td>A specific CloudServer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>lba-xxxxx</code></td><td>A specific Load Balancer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>grp-xxxxx</code></td><td>All the Cloud Servers in a specific Server Group. The rule is automatically updated whenever the group membership changes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>192.0.43.10</code></td><td>A specific IPv4 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>64.12.89.0/24</code></td><td>An IPv4 address with a network mask</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>2a00:1450:400c:c02::93</code></td><td>A specific IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>2a00:1450::/32</code></td><td>An IPv6 address with a network mask</td></tr>
</table>

Both source and destination addresses cannot be specificed in the same
rule - one "side" of the rule is always the Server Group that the
Firewall Policy is applied to.

Note that servers within a Server Group cannot reach each other unless
there are both rules allowing traffic destinated to and originating
from it.

##### Protocol Criteria

Protocol can be specified as an 8bit integer so you can match any IP
protocol, but for convenience the strings `tcp`, `udp` or `icmp` are
also accepted..  Not specifying a protocol matches all IP protocols.

#### Port Criteria

Ports can only be used with protocols `tcp` and `udp`.  Source and
destination ports can be specified in a few different ways:

<table>
<tr>
<th>Port criteria</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr><td><code>22</code></td><td>A single port</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>80,443</code></td><td>A comma separated list of up to 15 ports</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>6667-7000</code></td><td>A range of ports</td></tr>
</table>

Not specifying a port matches all ports.

#### ICMP Criteria

Coming Soon

### Default Firewall Policy

Every account has one default Server Group that all newly created
servers become a member of (unless you explicitly put them in a
different group).  That group has a Firewall Policy applied with some
default rules.

#### Existing Customers

For customers who signed up before Cloud Firewall was announced (2nd
November), the default policy is to *accept all traffic in both
directions* (just as it did before the Cloud Firewall was
implemented).

#### New Customers

For customers who signed up after Cloud Firewall was announced, the
default policy is as follows:

<table>
<tr>
	<th>Protocol</th><th>Source</th><th>Source Port</th><th>Destination</th><th>Destination Port</th><th>Icmp type</th>
</tr>
<tr><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
<tr><td>icmp</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>echo-request</td></tr>
<tr><td>tcp</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>22,80,443</td><td>-</td></tr>
<tr><td>-</td><td>grp-xxxxx (default group)</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
</table>

Which means allow all outgoing traffic, allow incoming icmp pings,
allow incoming tcp ports ssh, http and https, and allow incoming
connections from all other servers in the default group.

So incoming access is restricted to some commonly used ports, but all
servers in the group can reach each other openly.

Commit message:

Added section about stateful firewall

content/reference/firewall.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Cloud Firewall
section: Reference
---

The Cloud Firewall is a distributed firewall for managing network
access to, from and between Cloud Servers.

It's controlled using the [API](/reference/api/), commonly using the
[CLI](/reference/cli/).

See the [Cloud Firewall guide](/guides/cli/firewall/) for a step by
step walkthrough of setting up the Cloud Firewall.

### Server Group

A Server Group is a logical grouping of Cloud Servers. Servers can be
a member of one or more Server Groups, and can be added to or removed
from them at any time.

Server Groups are a useful system in their own right, and will be the
building blocks of other Brightbox Cloud features.  See the
[Server Groups guide](/guides/cli/server-groups/) for more details.

### Firewall Policy

A Firewall Policy represents a list of Firewall Rules and is
associated with a Server Group.  Rules are reapplied whenever the
policy or group membership changes.

When first created, a Firewall Policy has no rules and has no
associated Server Group.

A Firewall Policy can only consist of Firewall Rules that accept
traffic, which means a Cloud Server can easily be controlled by
multiple Firewall Policies without worrying about the ordering of the
rules.  A Cloud Server can have multiple Firewall Policies by being in
multiple Server Groups. Any traffic that is not matched by an accept
rule in any of the applied policies is rejected.

### Firewall Rules

A Firewall Rule is a set of criteria for matching IP packets crossing
the firewall.  Packets can be matched based on source or destination
address, protocol and source and destination ports. For protocol icmp,
the icmp type can also be matched.

#### Direction

There is no explicit concept of incoming or outgoing rules - the
direction of the rule is implied by the address criteria.  So when
matching on destination address, the source is considered to be the
Server Group (so is an outgoing rule).  When matching on source
address, the destination is considered to be the Server Group (so is
an incoming rule).

#### Address criteria

Source or destination addresses can be a few different types:

<table>
<tr>
<th>Address criteria</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr><td><code>any</code></td><td>Any IPv4 or IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>0.0.0.0/0</code></td><td>Any IPv4 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>::0/0</code></td><td>Any IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>srv-xxxxx</code></td><td>A specific CloudServer.</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>lba-xxxxx</code></td><td>A specific Load Balancer</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>grp-xxxxx</code></td><td>All the Cloud Servers in a specific Server Group. The rule is automatically updated whenever the group membership changes</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>192.0.43.10</code></td><td>A specific IPv4 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>64.12.89.0/24</code></td><td>An IPv4 address with a network mask</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>2a00:1450:400c:c02::93</code></td><td>A specific IPv6 address</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>2a00:1450::/32</code></td><td>An IPv6 address with a network mask</td></tr>
</table>

Both source and destination addresses cannot be specificed in the same
rule - one "side" of the rule is always the Server Group that the
Firewall Policy is applied to.

Note that servers within a Server Group cannot reach each other unless
there are both rules allowing traffic destinated to and originating
from it.

##### Protocol Criteria

Protocol can be specified as an 8bit integer so you can match any IP
protocol, but for convenience the strings `tcp`, `udp` or `icmp` are
also accepted..  Not specifying a protocol matches all IP protocols.

#### Port Criteria

Ports can only be used with protocols `tcp` and `udp`.  Source and
destination ports can be specified in a few different ways:

<table>
<tr>
<th>Port criteria</th><th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr><td><code>22</code></td><td>A single port</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>80,443</code></td><td>A comma separated list of up to 15 ports</td></tr>
<tr><td><code>6667-7000</code></td><td>A range of ports</td></tr>
</table>

Not specifying a port matches all ports.

#### ICMP Criteria

Coming Soon

### Stateful

The Cloud Firewall is stateful, so you only need to write a rule in one direction -
you do not need to worry about the reply packets coming back the other
way.

Also, removing rules will only affect new connections. Existing
established connections will not be disconnected mid-stream.

For `tcp`, an established connection is any connection that has passed
the three way handshake and hasn't yet sent the final FIN packets.

`udp` isn't a real stateful protocol, so we consider a `udp`
"connection" open for 30 seconds after each packet.

`icmp` isn't stateful either, we consider an icmp "connection" open
for 30 seconds after receiving an icmp echo request.

### Default Firewall Policy

Every account has one default Server Group that all newly created
servers become a member of (unless you explicitly put them in a
different group).  That group has a Firewall Policy applied with some
default rules.

#### Existing Customers

For customers who signed up before Cloud Firewall was announced (2nd
November), the default policy is to *accept all traffic in both
directions* (just as it did before the Cloud Firewall was
implemented).

#### New Customers

For customers who signed up after Cloud Firewall was announced, the
default policy is as follows:

<table>
<tr>
	<th>Protocol</th><th>Source</th><th>Source Port</th><th>Destination</th><th>Destination Port</th><th>Icmp type</th>
</tr>
<tr><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
<tr><td>icmp</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>echo-request</td></tr>
<tr><td>tcp</td><td>any</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>22,80,443</td><td>-</td></tr>
<tr><td>-</td><td>grp-xxxxx (default group)</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td><td>-</td></tr>
</table>

Which means allow all outgoing traffic, allow incoming icmp pings,
allow incoming tcp ports ssh, http and https, and allow incoming
connections from all other servers in the default group.

So incoming access is restricted to some commonly used ports, but all
servers in the group can reach each other openly.
