content/reference/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Reference Documentation
---

Detailed information about various elements of Brightbox Cloud.

<div class="grid_11 alpha" markdown="1">

#### [CLI](/reference/cli/)

The Command Line Interface.

#### [Glossary](/reference/glossary/)

A quick lookup list of Brightbox Cloud terminology.

#### [Cloud IPs](/reference/cloud-ips/)

Dynamically movable Public IP addresses.

#### [Load Balancers](/reference/load-balancers/)

Geographic redundancy, fault tolerance and horizontal scalability for
your server.

#### [Cloud Firewall](/reference/firewall/)

Distributed firewall for controlling network access to, from and
between Cloud Servers.

</div>

<div class="grid_11 prefix_2" markdown="1">

#### [Server Images](/reference/server-images/)

A Cloud Server Image is a virtual disk image from which a Server can
be created.

#### [Metadata service](/reference/metadata-service/)

The Metadata service available to Cloud Servers.

#### [API](/reference/api/)

Our RESTful HTTP API.

#### [DNS](/reference/dns/)

Our convenience DNS records and Cloud IP reverse dns support.

</div>

Commit message:

Initial accounts and billing documentation

content/reference/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Reference Documentation
---

Detailed information about various elements of Brightbox Cloud.

<div class="grid_11 alpha" markdown="1">

#### [CLI](/reference/cli/)

The Command Line Interface.

#### [Glossary](/reference/glossary/)

A quick lookup list of Brightbox Cloud terminology.

#### [Cloud IPs](/reference/cloud-ips/)

Dynamically movable Public IP addresses.

#### [Load Balancers](/reference/load-balancers/)

Geographic redundancy, fault tolerance and horizontal scalability for
your server.

#### [Cloud Firewall](/reference/firewall/)

Distributed firewall for controlling network access to, from and
between Cloud Servers.

</div>

<div class="grid_11 prefix_2" markdown="1">

#### [Server Images](/reference/server-images/)

A Cloud Server Image is a virtual disk image from which a Server can
be created.

#### [Metadata service](/reference/metadata-service/)

The Metadata service available to Cloud Servers.

#### [API](/reference/api/)

Our RESTful HTTP API.

#### [DNS](/reference/dns/)

Our convenience DNS records and Cloud IP reverse dns support.

#### [Accounts](/reference/accounts/)

All Brightbox services are provided through an Account.

#### [Billing](/reference/billing/)

Billing documentation
</div>
