content/guides/cli/getting-started.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Getting Started
section: CLI
---

We have a lovely [browser-based GUI](/guides/manager/) for
managing your Brightbox Cloud resources, but sometimes the power of a
command line interface is desired.

You can interact with Brightbox Cloud using our our command line
interface tool, which uses our API. This guide will take you from
creating a Brightbox Cloud Account to logging into your first Cloud
Server via SSH.

### Create an Account and OAuth Application

Firstly,
[sign up for a Brightbox Cloud Account](/guides/getting-started/signup/)
using [Brightbox Manager](https://manage.brightbox.com/signup).

Once you've signed up, you now need to
[create an OAuth Application](/guides/manager/user-applications/) which you'll use
to configure the CLI below. An OAuth Application is simply a pair of access
credentials that authenticate the method you're using to access the API. They
consist of an application identifier (like `app-xxxxx`) and a secret.
You'll use these in conjunction with your username and password to authenticate
against the API.

### Initial setup

#### Installation

Now that you have an account and an OAuth Application, you'll need to
[install the cli software](/guides/cli/installation/). Go do that and
come back here. I'll wait for you.

#### Configuration

You can now configure the CLI with OAuth Application credentials that you created.

To configure the cli with these credentials, run the following
command:

    $ brightbox config user_add your@email-address app-xxxxx thesecretstring
    
    Using config file /Home/john/.brightbox/config
    Enter your password :
    Creating new client config your@email-address
    The default account of acc-12345 has been selected

Notice that an account has automatically been selected to be your
default account.  If you only have one account then that's
fine. However, if you have multiple accounts or are a
[collaborator](/reference/collaboration/) on another user's account
you can change this later.

#### Initial test

You should be able to retrieve details of your user now. Note your id
as you'll need it in a moment:

    $ brightbox users list
    
     id         name        email_address         accounts
    -------------------------------------------------------
     usr-xxxxx  John Doe    john@example.com      1       
    -------------------------------------------------------

#### Configuring your ssh key

If you didn't provide a public ssh key when you signed up, you need to
do that now so that you can log into newly created servers:

    $ brightbox users update -f my-ssh-key.pub usr-xxxxx
               id: usr-xxxxx
             name: John Doe
    email_address: john@example.com
         accounts: acc-xxxxx
          ssh_key: ssh-dss AAAAB3....

### Building your first server

#### Choose an image

First, let's choose an operating system
[Image](/reference/server-images/) to use:

    $ brightbox images list

     id         owner      type      created_on  status   size   name                                                     
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     img-hy0lf  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   0      Blank Disk Image (i686)                                  
     img-t3xyp  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   0      Blank Disk Image (x86_64)                                
     img-adtke  brightbox  official  2011-07-20  public   0      Blank disk image (compat) (i686)                         
     img-ztdma  brightbox  official  2011-07-20  public   0      Blank disk image (compat) (x86_64)                       
     img-itn4a  brightbox  official  2013-05-02  public   1      Brightbox Bootstaller (i686)                             
     img-6xgf1  brightbox  official  2013-05-02  public   1      Brightbox Bootstaller (x86_64)                           
     img-2vn9s  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5222   CentOS 5.9 server (x86_64)                               
     img-h9zix  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   CentOS 6.4 server (i686)                                 
     img-6rdtr  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   CentOS 6.4 server (x86_64)                               
     img-k3399  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5125   Fedora 17 server (i686)                                  
     img-zhroq  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5125   Fedora 17 server (x86_64)                                
     img-1okdf  brightbox  official  2010-11-19  public   20480  FreeBSD 8.1 minimal (i686)                               
     img-aoubd  brightbox  official  2010-11-19  public   20480  FreeBSD 8.1 minimal (x86_64)                             
     img-zwg4b  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5222   Scientific Linux 5.9 server (x86_64)                     
     img-vgetc  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   Scientific Linux 6.4 server (i686)                       
     img-n4f5o  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   Scientific Linux 6.4 server (x86_64)                     
     img-a1yu3  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   769    Ubuntu Lucid 10.04 LTS server (i686)                     
     img-gaaeo  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   1025   Ubuntu Lucid 10.04 LTS server (x86_64)                   
     img-hnigl  brightbox  official  2012-03-14  public   20480  Windows 2008 Server R2 (x86_64)                          
     img-ovv3h  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (x86_64)               
     img-sougg  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-precise-12.04-i386-server (i686)                  
     img-x9lfj  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-quantal-12.10-amd64-server (x86_64)               
     img-t3dyq  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-quantal-12.10-i386-server (i686)                  
     img-g8ia6  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-raring-13.04-amd64-server (x86_64)                
     img-u3ttt  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-raring-13.04-i386-server (i686)                   
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's go with `ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server`, which is has an
identifier of `img-ovv3h`. We can inspect the details of the image
using `brightbox images show`. The `username` field shows that the
default account is named `ubuntu`.

    $ brightbox images show img-ovv3h

                    id: img-ovv3h
                  type: official
                 owner: brightbox
            created_at: 2013-05-10T08:41Z
                status: public
                  arch: x86_64
                  name: ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (x86_64)
           description: ID: com.ubuntu.cloud:released:download/com.ubuntu.cloud:server:12.04:amd64/20130502
              username: ubuntu
          virtual_size: 2048
             disk_size: 241
                public: true
    compatibility_mode: false
              official: true
           ancestor_id: 
          licence_name:

#### Create the server

Now you can create a server using that image. Give it a name of `my
first server` so you can identify it easily later:

    $ brightbox servers create -n "my first server" img-ovv3h
    
    Creating 1 'nano' (typ-4nssg) server with image ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (img-ovv3h)
    
     id         status    type  zone   created_on  image_id   cloud_ips  name           
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     srv-zx1hd  creating  nano  gb1-b  2013-06-21  img-ovv3h             my first server
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that the new server has been given the identifier `srv-zx1hd`.

If you wait a few moments and show the details of the new server, it
should have changed status from `creating` to `active`, which means
it has been built and has started up:

    $ brightbox servers show srv-zx1hd
        
                 id: srv-zx1hd
             status: active
               name: my first server
         created_at: 2013-06-21T00:24
         deleted_at: 
               zone: gb1-a
               type: typ-4nssg
          type_name: Brightbox Nano Instance
        type_handle: nano
                ram: 512
              cores: 2
               disk: 10240
              image: img-ovv3h
         image_name: ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server
        private_ips: 10.146.19.166
          cloud_ips: 
       ipv6_address: 2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce
       cloud_ip_ids: 
           hostname: srv-zk1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    public_hostname: 
      ipv6_hostname: ipv6.srv-zk1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
          snapshots: 
      server_groups: grp-98v4n

      
#### Mapping a cloud IP

So now you have a server with a IPv6 address and a private IPv4
address.  You can reach it straight away if you have an IPv6 Internet
connection:

    $ ping6 ipv6.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    
    PING ipv6.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com(2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce) 56 data bytes
    64 bytes from 2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce: icmp_seq=1 ttl=54 time=13.8 ms
    
    --- ipv6.srv-qdhro.gb1.brightbox.com ping statistics ---
    1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 13.876/13.876/13.876/0.000 ms

To give it a public IPv4 address, you need to map a
[Cloud IP](/reference/cloud-ips/) to it. Firstly, create a Cloud IP on
your account:

    $ brightbox cloudips create

     id         status    public_ip      destination  reverse_dns                          name
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     cip-360ea  unmapped  109.107.37.80               cip-109-107-37-80.gb1.brightbox.com      
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Then map it to your server using the Cloud IP identifier and your
server identifier:

    $ brightbox cloudips map cip-360ea srv-zx1hd
    
    Mapping cip-360ea to interface int-x4kve on srv-zx1hd


     id         status  public_ip      destination  reverse_dns                          name
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     cip-360ea  mapped  109.107.37.80  srv-zx1hd    cip-109-107-37-80.gb1.brightbox.com      
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Now you can log in via ssh using your ssh key. Remember, this image
uses the `ubuntu` account by default:

    $ ssh ubuntu@109.107.37.80
    Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-41-virtual)
    
    ubuntu@srv-zx1hd:~$ uptime
     13:02:07 up  0:01,  1 user,  load average: 0.04, 0.01, 0.00
     
For convenience, there is also a dns entry for the first Cloud IP
mapped to a server:

    $ host public.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    
    public.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com has address 109.107.37.80

### Would you like to know more?

Here you installed and configured the Command Line Interface tool,
created an Ubuntu server, mapped a Cloud IP to it and connected in
using ssh.

You might want to learn more about
[Cloud IPs](/guides/cli/cloud-ips/),
[discover zones](/reference/glossary/#zone) or learn how to
[Create a snapshot](/guides/cli/create-a-snapshot/).

You might also want to learn a bit about the default
[firewall policy](/guides/cli/firewall/), and how to change it.

<small>Join the Mobile Infantry and save the Galaxy. Service
guarantees citizenship.</small>

Commit message:

change api-clients from getting started format

content/guides/cli/getting-started.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Getting Started
section: CLI
---

We have a lovely [browser-based GUI](/guides/manager/) for
managing your Brightbox Cloud resources, but sometimes the power of a
command line interface is desired.

You can interact with Brightbox Cloud using our our command line
interface tool, which uses our API. This guide will take you from
creating a Brightbox Cloud Account to logging into your first Cloud
Server via SSH.

### Create an Account and OAuth Application

Firstly,
[sign up for a Brightbox Cloud Account](/guides/getting-started/signup/)
using [Brightbox Manager](https://manage.brightbox.com/signup).

Once you've signed up, you now need to
[create an OAuth Application](/guides/manager/user-applications/) which you'll use
to configure the CLI below. An OAuth Application is simply a pair of access
credentials that authenticate the method you're using to access the API. They
consist of an application identifier (like `app-xxxxx`) and a secret.
You'll use these in conjunction with your username and password to authenticate
against the API.

### Initial setup

#### Installation

Now that you have an account and an OAuth Application, you'll need to
[install the cli software](/guides/cli/installation/). Go do that and
come back here. I'll wait for you.

#### Configuration

You can now configure the CLI with OAuth Application credentials that you created.

To configure the cli with these credentials, run the following
command:

    $ brightbox config user_add your@email-address app-xxxxx thesecretstring
    
    Using config file /Home/john/.brightbox/config
    Enter your password :
    Creating new client config your@email-address
    The default account of acc-12345 has been selected

Notice that an account has automatically been selected to be your
default account.  If you only have one account then that's
fine. However, if you have multiple accounts or are a
[collaborator](/reference/collaboration/) on another user's account
you can change this later.

#### Initial test

You should be able to retrieve details of your user now. Note your id
as you'll need it in a moment:

    $ brightbox users list
    
     id         name        email_address         accounts
    -------------------------------------------------------
     usr-xxxxx  John Doe    john@example.com      1       
    -------------------------------------------------------

#### Configuring your ssh key

If you didn't provide a public ssh key when you signed up, you need to
do that now so that you can log into newly created servers:

    $ brightbox users update -f my-ssh-key.pub usr-xxxxx
               id: usr-xxxxx
             name: John Doe
    email_address: john@example.com
         accounts: acc-xxxxx
          ssh_key: ssh-dss AAAAB3....

### Building your first server

#### Choose an image

First, let's choose an operating system
[Image](/reference/server-images/) to use:

    $ brightbox images list

     id         owner      type      created_on  status   size   name                                                     
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     img-hy0lf  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   0      Blank Disk Image (i686)                                  
     img-t3xyp  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   0      Blank Disk Image (x86_64)                                
     img-adtke  brightbox  official  2011-07-20  public   0      Blank disk image (compat) (i686)                         
     img-ztdma  brightbox  official  2011-07-20  public   0      Blank disk image (compat) (x86_64)                       
     img-itn4a  brightbox  official  2013-05-02  public   1      Brightbox Bootstaller (i686)                             
     img-6xgf1  brightbox  official  2013-05-02  public   1      Brightbox Bootstaller (x86_64)                           
     img-2vn9s  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5222   CentOS 5.9 server (x86_64)                               
     img-h9zix  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   CentOS 6.4 server (i686)                                 
     img-6rdtr  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   CentOS 6.4 server (x86_64)                               
     img-k3399  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5125   Fedora 17 server (i686)                                  
     img-zhroq  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5125   Fedora 17 server (x86_64)                                
     img-1okdf  brightbox  official  2010-11-19  public   20480  FreeBSD 8.1 minimal (i686)                               
     img-aoubd  brightbox  official  2010-11-19  public   20480  FreeBSD 8.1 minimal (x86_64)                             
     img-zwg4b  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5222   Scientific Linux 5.9 server (x86_64)                     
     img-vgetc  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   Scientific Linux 6.4 server (i686)                       
     img-n4f5o  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   5120   Scientific Linux 6.4 server (x86_64)                     
     img-a1yu3  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   769    Ubuntu Lucid 10.04 LTS server (i686)                     
     img-gaaeo  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   1025   Ubuntu Lucid 10.04 LTS server (x86_64)                   
     img-hnigl  brightbox  official  2012-03-14  public   20480  Windows 2008 Server R2 (x86_64)                          
     img-ovv3h  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (x86_64)               
     img-sougg  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-precise-12.04-i386-server (i686)                  
     img-x9lfj  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-quantal-12.10-amd64-server (x86_64)               
     img-t3dyq  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-quantal-12.10-i386-server (i686)                  
     img-g8ia6  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-raring-13.04-amd64-server (x86_64)                
     img-u3ttt  brightbox  official  2013-05-10  public   2048   ubuntu-raring-13.04-i386-server (i686)                   
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Let's go with `ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server`, which is has an
identifier of `img-ovv3h`. We can inspect the details of the image
using `brightbox images show`. The `username` field shows that the
default account is named `ubuntu`.

    $ brightbox images show img-ovv3h

                    id: img-ovv3h
                  type: official
                 owner: brightbox
            created_at: 2013-05-10T08:41Z
                status: public
                  arch: x86_64
                  name: ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (x86_64)
           description: ID: com.ubuntu.cloud:released:download/com.ubuntu.cloud:server:12.04:amd64/20130502
              username: ubuntu
          virtual_size: 2048
             disk_size: 241
                public: true
    compatibility_mode: false
              official: true
           ancestor_id: 
          licence_name:

#### Create the server

Now you can create a server using that image. Give it a name of `my
first server` so you can identify it easily later:

    $ brightbox servers create -n "my first server" img-ovv3h
    
    Creating 1 'nano' (typ-4nssg) server with image ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server (img-ovv3h)
    
     id         status    type  zone   created_on  image_id   cloud_ips  name           
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     srv-zx1hd  creating  nano  gb1-b  2013-06-21  img-ovv3h             my first server
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note that the new server has been given the identifier `srv-zx1hd`.

If you wait a few moments and show the details of the new server, it
should have changed status from `creating` to `active`, which means
it has been built and has started up:

    $ brightbox servers show srv-zx1hd
        
                 id: srv-zx1hd
             status: active
               name: my first server
         created_at: 2013-06-21T00:24
         deleted_at: 
               zone: gb1-a
               type: typ-4nssg
          type_name: Brightbox Nano Instance
        type_handle: nano
                ram: 512
              cores: 2
               disk: 10240
              image: img-ovv3h
         image_name: ubuntu-precise-12.04-amd64-server
        private_ips: 10.146.19.166
          cloud_ips: 
       ipv6_address: 2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce
       cloud_ip_ids: 
           hostname: srv-zk1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    public_hostname: 
      ipv6_hostname: ipv6.srv-zk1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
          snapshots: 
      server_groups: grp-98v4n

      
#### Mapping a cloud IP

So now you have a server with a IPv6 address and a private IPv4
address.  You can reach it straight away if you have an IPv6 Internet
connection:

    $ ping6 ipv6.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    
    PING ipv6.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com(2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce) 56 data bytes
    64 bytes from 2a02:1348:14c:4f3:24:19ff:fef0:13ce: icmp_seq=1 ttl=54 time=13.8 ms
    
    --- ipv6.srv-qdhro.gb1.brightbox.com ping statistics ---
    1 packets transmitted, 1 received, 0% packet loss, time 0ms
    rtt min/avg/max/mdev = 13.876/13.876/13.876/0.000 ms

To give it a public IPv4 address, you need to map a
[Cloud IP](/reference/cloud-ips/) to it. Firstly, create a Cloud IP on
your account:

    $ brightbox cloudips create

     id         status    public_ip      destination  reverse_dns                          name
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     cip-360ea  unmapped  109.107.37.80               cip-109-107-37-80.gb1.brightbox.com      
    --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Then map it to your server using the Cloud IP identifier and your
server identifier:

    $ brightbox cloudips map cip-360ea srv-zx1hd
    
    Mapping cip-360ea to interface int-x4kve on srv-zx1hd


     id         status  public_ip      destination  reverse_dns                          name
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     cip-360ea  mapped  109.107.37.80  srv-zx1hd    cip-109-107-37-80.gb1.brightbox.com      
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Now you can log in via ssh using your ssh key. Remember, this image
uses the `ubuntu` account by default:

    $ ssh ubuntu@109.107.37.80
    Welcome to Ubuntu 12.04.2 LTS (GNU/Linux 3.2.0-41-virtual)
    
    ubuntu@srv-zx1hd:~$ uptime
     13:02:07 up  0:01,  1 user,  load average: 0.04, 0.01, 0.00
     
For convenience, there is also a dns entry for the first Cloud IP
mapped to a server:

    $ host public.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com
    
    public.srv-zx1hd.gb1.brightbox.com has address 109.107.37.80

### Would you like to know more?

Here you installed and configured the Command Line Interface tool,
created an Ubuntu server, mapped a Cloud IP to it and connected in
using ssh.

You might want to learn more about
[Cloud IPs](/guides/cli/cloud-ips/),
[discover zones](/reference/glossary/#zone) or learn how to
[Create a snapshot](/guides/cli/create-a-snapshot/).

You might also want to learn a bit about the default
[firewall policy](/guides/cli/firewall/), and how to change it.

If you want to automate use of the CLI you may want to look into authenticating with [API clients](/guides/cli/api-clients), which don't usernames or passwords.

<small>Join the Mobile Infantry and save the Galaxy. Service
guarantees citizenship.</small>
