content/guides/cli/installation.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: CLI Installation
---

The Command Line Interface is available for installation in two forms,
a Ruby gem or an Ubuntu package.

### Ubuntu package installation

The simplest way for an Ubuntu user to install the cli is via our
package repository on Launchpad:

    $ add-apt-repository ppa:brightbox/ppa
    $ apt-get update
    $ apt-get install brightbox-cli

### Ruby gem installation

If you're not on Ubuntu, you can install our Ruby gem package instead.

#### Dependencies

You'll need some libraries and headers installed to build the required
native gems. On Debian and Ubuntu, you can install these like this:

    $ sudo apt-get install ruby rubygems ruby-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev libopenssl-ruby libjson0-dev

Debian should be the same as Ubuntu, though you'll need to install a
newer version of rubygems. We recommend the
[Tryphon repositories](http://debian.tryphon.eu/).

On Fedora you should be able to install them like this:

    $ sudo yum install ruby rubygems ruby-devel make gcc libxslt-devel libxml2-devel

On OSX, you just need XCode installed, which provides everything you
need.

#### Install the gem

    $ gem install brightbox-cli
    Fetching: json-1.4.6.gem (100%)
    Building native extensions.  This could take a while...
    Fetching: json_pure-1.4.6.gem (100%)
    Fetching: gli-1.2.5.gem (100%)
    Fetching: hirb-0.3.5.gem (100%)
    Fetching: formatador-0.0.16.gem (100%)
    Fetching: excon-0.5.6.gem (100%)
    Fetching: ini-0.1.1.gem (100%)
    Fetching: brightbox-cli-0.13.gem (100%)
    Successfully installed json-1.4.6
    Successfully installed json_pure-1.4.6
    Successfully installed gli-1.2.5
    Successfully installed hirb-0.3.5
    Successfully installed formatador-0.0.16
    Successfully installed excon-0.5.6
    Successfully installed ini-0.1.1
    Successfully installed brightbox-cli-0.13
    8 gems installed

#### Binaries path

Debian and Ubuntu rubygems packages don't have the rubygems binary
path installed by default, so you need to add it:

    export PATH=$PATH:/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin

Under OSX, if you installed the gem system-wide using sudo, then the
binaries should already be in your path. If you installed the gem
without sudo on OSX, then you need to update your path:

    export PATH=$PATH:~/.gem/ruby/1.8/bin

Commit message:

cli install: Add windows instructions

content/guides/cli/installation.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: CLI Installation
---

The Command Line Interface is available for installation in two forms,
a Ruby gem or an Ubuntu package.

### Ubuntu package installation

The simplest way for an Ubuntu user to install the cli is via our
package repository on Launchpad:

    $ add-apt-repository ppa:brightbox/ppa
    $ apt-get update
    $ apt-get install brightbox-cli

### Ruby gem installation

If you're not on Ubuntu, you can install our Ruby gem package instead.

#### Ubuntu and Debian Dependencies

You'll need some libraries and headers installed to build the required
native gems. On Debian and Ubuntu, you can install these like this:

    $ sudo apt-get install ruby rubygems ruby-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev libopenssl-ruby libjson0-dev

Debian should be the same as Ubuntu, though you'll need to install a
newer version of rubygems. We recommend the
[Tryphon repositories](http://debian.tryphon.eu/).

#### Fedora Dependencies

On Fedora you should be able to install them like this:

    $ sudo yum install ruby rubygems ruby-devel make gcc libxslt-devel libxml2-devel

#### OSX Dependencies

On OSX, you just need XCode installed, which provides everything you
need.

#### Windows Dependencies

We recommend using the Ruby installer available at
[rubyinstaller.org](http://rubyinstaller.org/). This will give you
everything you need to install the our gem package in one shot.

Any of the versions of Ruby available on there will work fine with the
cli, but we recommend Ruby 1.9.3 if you don't have a preference. In
the installer, tick the box labelled `Add Ruby executables to your
PATH`.

#### Install the gem

    $ gem install brightbox-cli
    Fetching: json-1.4.6.gem (100%)
    Building native extensions.  This could take a while...
    Fetching: json_pure-1.4.6.gem (100%)
    Fetching: gli-1.2.5.gem (100%)
    Fetching: hirb-0.3.5.gem (100%)
    Fetching: formatador-0.0.16.gem (100%)
    Fetching: excon-0.5.6.gem (100%)
    Fetching: ini-0.1.1.gem (100%)
    Fetching: brightbox-cli-0.13.gem (100%)
    Successfully installed json-1.4.6
    Successfully installed json_pure-1.4.6
    Successfully installed gli-1.2.5
    Successfully installed hirb-0.3.5
    Successfully installed formatador-0.0.16
    Successfully installed excon-0.5.6
    Successfully installed ini-0.1.1
    Successfully installed brightbox-cli-0.13
    8 gems installed

#### Binaries path

Debian and Ubuntu rubygems packages don't have the rubygems binary
path installed by default, so you need to add it:

    export PATH=$PATH:/var/lib/gems/1.8/bin

Under OSX, if you installed the gem system-wide using sudo, then the
binaries should already be in your path. If you installed the gem
without sudo on OSX, then you need to update your path:

    export PATH=$PATH:~/.gem/ruby/1.8/bin
